In this paper, we discuss security issues with Cloud BasedComputing and Cloud Operating Systems. Cloud computing has recently experienced a significant increase in popularity as major companies such as Google and Microsoft have started to release cloud based products, advertise the use of the cloud, and even release an open source Cloud OS. As the general public becomes more aware of cloud based computing and the popularity increases the demand for security will increase. This paper discusses both unique security concerns for cloud computing as well as shared security issues between cloud and traditional computing. Current solutions for these security risks are also discussed and evaluated. In addition, we propose a method for allowing the user to select specific security levels of security for items and make a list of security items that all users should be aware of before opting to use cloud based services.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
D.4.6 [Security and Protection]: Cryptographic controls, Access controls
D.4.6 [Operating Systems]: Security and Protection - Access controls – Authentication, Cryptographic controls, Informationflow controls, Invasive software.
D.4.7 [Operating system] Organization and Design- Distributed systems
General Terms
Cloud Computing, Cloud Operating System, Security, WS-Security, TLS, XML Encryption, XML Signature, Browser Security
1. INTRODUCTION
Cloud Computing has been a hot topic of discussion for several years. The recent deployment of Google’s Chrome OS, an open-source cloud based operating system, has added fuel to concerns for the security of cloud computing especially when the majority of the operating systems tasks are handled outside of the users hardware and control.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee.
Information Security Curriculum Development Conference 2011 October 7-9, 2011, Kennesaw, GA, USA.
Copyright 2011 ACM 978-1-4503-0812-0/10/11…$10.00.
In addition, Microsoft and other companies have started focusing more technology and advertisements on cloud based applications. While cloud computing and cloud based operating systems are not brand new, it is of importance to reevaluate the aspects of security for cloud computing as awareness and popularity of using cloud computing becomes more popular. Security aspects of cloud computing have been compared to historical work on early time-sharing systems [1]. Similar security problems are resurfacing as modern use of computers reverts back to server-based usage. Given this similarity, some problems with cloud computing already have solutions. In addition, most of the security issues with cloud computing already exist in currently used methods for computing. Having said this, there are novel problems that exist as a result of cloud computing and should or have been addressed. Finally, security within the cloud network covers more than just the security of users’ data. It also includes the prevention of cloud based bot networks, spam, and other types of tactics abusing the capabilities of the seemingly infinite resources available within the cloud. In section 2 we give an overview of Cloud Computing. The section covers cloud computing with virtual machines, such as on the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) and Cloud Operating Systems such as Google Chrome OS. We feel that it is important to have at least a general understanding of Cloud Computing to understand the security issues. Section 3 discusses the security issues for cloud computing. The section attempts to give a well rounded examination of both new and preexisting security concerns and how those security concerns are addressed. The section also covers aspects affecting users as well as potential security risks to the providers and potential abuses of clients. A proposed solution for allowing users to select security settings is discussed in section 4 and a proposal is made for a standardized method for assigning security for data across cloud networks. In addition, a list of security issues that all users should be aware of is given and suggestions are made for users to minimize security risks if they choose to use cloud based services. Lastly, the conclusion summarizes all of the security concepts and suggests future areas of research based on the material discussed in this paper.
2. OVERVIEW OF CLOUD COMPUTING
Cloud computing is a very broad term used for the recent development of internet-based computing. This section gives a very brief summary of cloud computing and also discusses cloud operating systems. The goal of this section is to give any readers a foundation of knowledge so that they can better understand security concerns as well as current security measures existing within cloud computing.
2.1 Virtualization, IaaS, SaaS, and PaaS
Virtualization is the central technology which makes cloud computing possible [4, 5]. Essentially, virtualization is a technology that makes it possible for a single PC or server to simultaneously run more than one session of an operating system. This allows users to run applications designed for different operating systems on a single machine instead of having multiple pieces of hardware for each required operating system. In order to allow a system to run multiple operating system, virtual machines are created which emulate a hardware device. Virtual machines also known as Hypervisors [4] handles communication between the different operating systems and the CPU within the PC or server, storage of data, and network
connection. This new technology allowed corporations such as Amazon to create massive networks of servers with virtually an unlimited number of virtual machines. Amazon’s Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) is probably the most well known vendor of infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) which is a term coined for allowing a client to rent virtual machine images as a service. A user can install software, store data, and do almost everything that can be done with a physical PC or server. Virtualization allowed providers to greatly expand the capabilities for server-side tasks and made it more cost efficient for clients to use IaaS. Clients were no longer obligated to spend money for hardware and maintenance. Instead, the provider is able to supply highly cost effective servers as part of a large datacenter or warehouse. Around the same time, providers started to offer Software-as-a-service (SaaS) which was the beginning of cloud computing. SaaS is also referred to as “software on demand” in which a client can use software provided by a organization and pay for the usage in unit or measurement. With this new technology, creative minds were able to develop the idea for cloud computing. While this term as mentioned earlier is broad and encompasses many different ideas and practices, the basic idea of the cloud is that more computations are completed on the server side. Servers are managed within datacenters and optimized for maximum efficiency and performance; with servers playing the major role in providing service, users are able to experience a seemingly instant, more capable, and dynamic system.
2.2 Cloud Computing Architecture
Cloud computing can be divided into two sections, the user and the cloud. In most scenarios, the user is connected to the cloud via the internet. It is also possible for an organization to have a private cloud in which a user is connected via a intranet. However, both scenarios are identical other than the use of a private and public network or cloud [5]. The user sends requests to the cloud and the cloud provides the service. See Figure 1.
Within the cloud, a central server is responsible for administering the system and in many ways functions as the operating system of the specific cloud network. Another name for this is called “middleware” which is the central server for a particular cloud. Examples include Google App Engine and Amazon EC2 [5].
2.3 Cloud Applications
The most common form of cloud applications are called Software- as-a-Service (SaaS) in which a company makes a software available over the web for users to pay for in some form or another. Examples of popular SaaSs include financial software, document software, and almost all software one would expect to find for private computing. There are also free types of SaaS such as Google Apps which includes Google Docs, which allows users to complete many features of desktop publishers such as Microsoft Windows Office. However, Google Docs does not offer as much functionality as typical desktop publishers, but it does add the ability to dynamically save materials (every update is saved automatically) so that if connection is lost between the user and the cloud no materials will be lost. In addition, users are able to share documents and edit simultaneously over the web. This allows easier collaboration and reduces the amount of time individuals have to spend compiling multiples drafts of Documents.
2.4 Just Enough Operating Systems
In a movement toward taking full advantage of cloud computing many organizations have started to develop an operating system for users that would do “just enough” in order for them to use cloud computing options. This has led to the term Just Enough Operating System (JeOS). A JeOS is a step toward allowing users to become dependent on the cloud for handling the majority of tasks. The JeOS is a new advancement in directing users to only using browsers for running applications. By using browsers all applications in any language could be accessible as long as the server were able to translate into a web browser format. Security of future PCs could be focused on browser based security.
2.5 Cloud Operating Systems
Building on the development of JeOSs, Cloud Operating Systems have been developed. Most recently, Google has released Google Chrome OS on a laptop named CR-48 for a pilot program. Basically, the Google Chrome OS is a form of JeOS which provides an operating systems that only handles necessities required to allow the user to user the Google Chrome browser to access cloud applications. It is expected that the use of JeOS will become more common within the marketplace because consumers will be able to purchase hardware at a fraction of the price of traditional hardware that uses non-cloud based operating systems. Also, as mentioned earlier, this type of setup reduces the costs for organizations by not requiring them to purchase operating systems or pay for labor to maintain servers.
3. SECURITY ISSUES
As mentioned previously, there are many security concerns for the use of cloud computing. These security concerns include both items that are related to traditional computing as well as security issues specific to cloud computing. Also, there are security issues that affect clients as well as providers. Most individuals think of attacks on the user’s computer when computer security is mentioned. However, it is important to also consider that individuals can abuse cloud computing to create a virtual bot-network.
3.1 XML Signature
One method for ensuring authenticity of data within the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) was to create XML Signatures. Essentially, an XML signature is attached to fragments of XML in order to prove to the recipient that the data is authentic and has integrity [3]. However, an attack known as the “wrapper attack” in which an attacker can inject duplicate a fragment of XML while adding additional code that would lead the computer to do additional unwanted tasks. As its name implies, the attacker virtually wraps the signature around the malicious code and passes it on as if it were genuine. XML is essential for cloud computing for sharing information between systems. With wrapper attacks as a potential way to cause malicious problems, providers must think of creative ways to prevent wrapping attacks from succeeding. Having said this, wrapper attacks are not common and are not very likely because they are not commonly used in business applications.
3.2 Browser Security
For Cloud Operating Systems such as Google Chrome OS, the browser is the main source for I/O for the user. There are many issues facing security for browsers within the cloud. The first common line of defense for browsers is for servers to use the Same Origin Policy (SOP) which is for the server to monitor the original location of the browser when the request was made and only accept requests if the request comes from the same location. However, this has been proven to not be a sufficient form of security. The paper [3] argues that the main problem with browsers is that they can not take advantage of XML Signature or encryption and makes the case for integrating this capability into future browsers. Without the capability of using XML encryption and signature the browser is left to use Transport Layer Security (TLS) or “Secure Socket Layer” which refers to two layers: the record layer and the TLS handshake. This serves as the primary form of security for browsers. However, it requires the server to have a digital certificate and not all pages are secure. The major flaw to TLS is “phishing” which is where users are tricked by a malicious website or individual with the intent of gaining the users login information. Once the attacker has access to this data, TLS is obsolete in protecting the data.  This is the first of many items that is not specific to the security of users’ data. Security for the cloud also includes how
3.3 Flooding
One type of attack is called Denial-of-Service (DOS) attack. In this type of attack a hacker uses infected computers to all connect to a specific website, overloading the server with requests and causing the server to get bogged down and not function efficiently[3]. With traditional servers there is a limit to the capabilities of the physical server. However, in a situation where the website is on a cloud and the owner pays via usage, there is seemingly an infinite amount of resources for the server. If a DOS were targeted to a cloud based server the owner of that website could be charged an outrageous amount as the cloud provided more and more resources to supply the demand on the server caused by the DOS. In addition to inflated costs to the owner, other users of the cloud may also be affected by the DOS as shared resources are taken and used for the site with dealing with the DOS and not on the unaffected site. Another possibility is that the cloud could try to pull resources from other nodes or sections of the cloud which would then cause a significant spread of the number of people affected by the DOS attack.
3.4 Reputation Fate Sharing
One unfortunate side effect of sharing one piece of hardware for several users is that the reputation of all individuals using the same piece of hardware can be affected by each other. There are two specific real world instances where there have been
significant victims of reputation fate sharing. The first, followed shortly after attackers were successfully able to subvert Amazon EC2 and cause for a large amount of SPAM to be sent out from the Amazon Cloud. As a result, Spamhaus blacklisted a large portion of Amazon’s EC2 IP addresses. Amazon was forced to change its policies and require additional steps of security for users [1]. A second incident involves the raid of a datacenter by FBI agents on the charge that cybercrimes were being administered on hardware within the facility. As a result, operations for many innocent users were affected while FBI agents searched for evidence with the cybercrime case they were working on [1]. In fact, some companies affected by the seizure reported that they suffered significant losses but could not do anything to regain what was lost. This type of security risk affects multiple parties and is a result of the cloud being abused by a user. While these security risks are
significant, the reality is that datacenters are better capable of dealing with security as compared to individuals. The problem is that when a datacenter security flaw is exposed numerous victims will be affected, even those that exercise secure behaviors.
3.5 Side Channels
Within a piece of hardware that has multiple virtual machines resources are shared which can be used as a way to side channel data from one virtual machine to another. This type of attack is based on the shared resources between virtual machines within the same piece of hardware. An attacker if successful in neighboring a target can then use various methods for intercepting data being sent and received from the other virtual machine. This form of security risk has been documented and there are many methods for preventing this type of attack.
As mentioned previously, while there are security flaws within the cloud it is important to remember that there are security risks in all forms of computing. It is arguable that datacenters can provide superior security over what the majority of individuals are able to provide themselves. For instance, if a security flaw is discovered research is conducted to prevent or fix the flaw and software is updated. However, typical users are not likely to maintain their system and keep it up-to-date with security updates. Datacenters however, are able to install and implement security updates almost immediately and can place the additional security on all of the virtual machines at the same time.
3.6 Loose Control Over Data
Probably the most significant reason for deterring companies and individuals from cloud computing and cloud operating systems is that the user looses control over the data. On traditional PC or servers owned by a company or individual, there is control over
how the data is stored, restrictions put on who can access it, and backup policies are established. For cloud computing the data is
stored on the server and the third-party company is responsible for deciding the details of data storage. Also, there is a level of trust
required between the user and the provider. The user must trust the provider enough to store potentially confidential, secret, or
sensitive data. While we could not find specific evidence of organizations sharing data illegally with third-party organizations, it is assumed that users will be obligated to consent the provider with permission to use analytics or even data stored to solicit advertisers, in order for the user to receive free services. Google’s business model is centered on providing free service to users while using information obtained to benefit advertisers. It is highly likely that organizations and individuals will not want their data mined for information for advertisers. This will require the users to elect for services that include fees but offer higher confidentiality and do not sell data to advertisers.
3.7 Dependence of the Internet
As the use of the cloud becomes more common and applications increase, our dependency on the internet is increasing exponentially. This holds true as more and more users rely on servers for the functionality of the majority of their applications
and for the storage of data. Especially when users use Cloud OS such as Google Chrome OS, users are fully dependent on the
internet for any form of computing. In the event of a catastrophic virus, terrorist attack, or other event capable of disabling the
internet for a large number if not all individuals, production would become severely crippled. For instance, if a water company chose to outsource servers and computers to virtual machines hosted in the cloud, the company and the clients could loose water
Control.
4. STANDARDIZED USER SECURITY DESIGNATION
After analyzing the material listed above, there are many items that should be focused on in order to maximize security within the cloud. For this reason, we have developed a list of security items that all individuals using the cloud should be aware of and review before deciding whether to use the cloud. First however, we introduce an idea for standardization of assigning security to items across the cloud.
4.1 Standardization of security levels
Cloud computing is comprised of multiple servers and datacenters providing services via the internet and forming a seemingly infinite size of computing power. Security, as discussed throughout this paper, is a major concern and faces many
challenges within cloud computing. It is our suggestion that work be developed on standardizing security levels throughout the cloud that all participating organizations follow. Servers would enforce specific security measures depending on the level
assigned. This standardization would allow users to designate specific security levels to different information. For instance, an organization working on research and development may place high security on information on projects that have not yet been published or introduced to the marketplace. This same imaginary organization may also not view data once published as needing to be secure, therefore a lower setting could be assigned. In theory, by allowing different items to be assigned as needing to be secure and others as not needing security, the workload and levels of security could be focused on only items that need security. Furthermore, providers could charge more or less based on the security requirements for the data that it is housing for the user.
Allowing users the ability to assign security levels could cause problems in that some may elect to make everything secure. This may cause unnecessary security precautions being made to data that would not otherwise have been treated securely. This would waste resources and could prove to be less efficient than the current systems and methods currently in place. Also, by labeling items as secure or not, hackers may be able to better focus on information that is intended to be secure. This would greatly reduce the amount of packets that hackers would have to inspect for sensitive information because they would have a method for a targeting them.
4.2 List everyone should know
There are arguably an infinite number of items that users should be aware of and consider before choosing to use cloud computing or cloud operating systems. We attempt to list several of these items and do not in any way suggest that this list is complete. Also, anyone viewing this list should be aware that security especially for something as dynamic as cloud computing is constantly evolving and growing and he or she should seek additional items.
Social Engineering is probably the easiest method for hackers to gain access to confidential material. Always review the authenticity of any form, email, or phone call when an individual is asking you for login information, passwords, or confidential information. If in question,go directly to the website of the organization and login, never login through a third-party source.
Cloud computing has security flaws but so does traditional computing. There are security flaws in every form of computing. The main determinant is how hard someone is willing to take advantage of the security flaws to get your information. Every user should be aware that no form of computing is safe, however measures can be taken to lower the chances of exposure.
Cloud computing is arguably more secure than traditional PC computing for most users. Within the cloud experts are responsible for maintaining the security of information and date being handled by the servers. Most individuals do not have the expertise or are not willing to implement the most up-to-date security features on their home PC. For this reason, many argue that cloud computing and cloud operating are actually safer than traditional computing.
Be aware of how confidential your data should be and act accordingly. No amount of security features will protect someone that blatantly posts confidential information in non-secure or public areas within the internet. A large portion of security is in the hands of the user. Similarly, a user should be aware of the level of required confidentiality of the data being used to determine what services should be used. For example, a user planning to create a blog will not want to keep their posts secure and hidden from the public because the author wants people to read the post. In contrast, an organization responsible for maintaining a list of social security number must be sure that the social security numbers are not available to the public and are protected from malicious attacks. The majority of the services made available on the cloud are more or less social instruments that are not typically secure sensitive.
If you are planning to only use cloud computing for social instances and not post anything that should be kept from the public then you should not fear using the cloud computing. However, if the data is secure sensitive then further evaluation of the security offered by the cloud service should be evaluated.
Finally, the last item is to use reputable companies within the cloud and do research on companies that you are not familiar with to reduce your chance of falling victim to a phishing scam or false entity.
5. CONCLUSION
This paper described numerous security issues facing cloud computing and cloud operating system. Issues focused on users as well as security for servers which may have an indirect affect on users. This paper also discussed a novel idea for standardization of security levels for data across the cloud in which all servers would respect. After further discussion, this idea was found to need much more work and thought in order to be developed into something useful in the future. Also, several key security issues were discussed that all users and organizations should be aware of when deciding whether to use the cloud or not.